So let's talk a bit about boosting and begging.
So as far as these approaches are concerned both of them use and learners and yields more stable models
as far as bagging is concerned we use several independent decision trees and all of these decision trees
are going to make some predictions and then random forest classifier which is a form of bagging is going
to choose the final clause based on majority voting.
As far as boosting is concerned again we are going to combine several vehicles earners in order to end
up with the final strong the classifier.
OK so both of them use these and learners and yields more stable models as far as bagging is concerned.
Every item has the same probability to appear in a new data set.
On the other hand for boosting the samples are weighted so some of them will acquire more often.
So basically this is why we assign a w weight to every single sample in the dataset because boosting
is going to increase the W weight for misclassified items and decrease the weight for correctly classified
items.
What does it mean that in the next iteration the next week learner is going to focus on samples with
higher weights.
OK so that's why the samples are weighted.
So some of them will acquire more often.
We can use parallelization for bagging.
So there's a parallel training stage.
So this is what we have been talking about at random for us classifier which is a form of begging.
We can say that the number of jobs as you can see here and if it is set to minus one the number of jobs
is set to the number of processor cores so because these decision trees are independent of each other
that's why we are able to construct it in a parallel manner for boosting the final decision is the weighted
average of B and learners.
So better classifiers have higher weights.
OK.
So this is why we have to use this outer perimeter this outthought is going to control the H x week
learners.
On the other hand for example random forest classifiers are going to create several independent decision
trees and with the help of voting it is going to make a prediction as far as the final Clauss is concerned.
So here we do not use any weights.
So basically the final decision is the average of the learners.
But what's the most important difference between bagging and boosting is that bagging reduces variance
and it solves overfitting only error and boosting reduces bias but increases overfitting a bit.
And that's why bagging is the preferred way.
So usually with the help of bagging we are able to achieve higher accuracy and a better model.
So both of these algorithms can prove to be very very useful but bagging is preferred in the main.